			      fcrypt.py
			      ---------

This is a pure Python implementation of the Unix DES password crypt
function.  It was ported from C code by Eric Young (eay@mincom.oz.au).
See the file LICENSE for copyright and license details.

This module is packaged with Distutils.  If you have this installed,
or it came with your version of Python, you can install it by typing:

    python setup.py install

If not, you can just copy 'fcrypt.py' into a directory on your Python
library path, or into the same directory as the program that wants to
use it.


  crypt(3) Extensions
  -------------------

The crypt function in OpenBSD's C library includes extensions to the
crypt algorithm where the salt, or "setting," may start with a special
character; '_' for an extended DES algorithm with a longer salt and
password, $1 for MD5 hashing and $2 for Blowfish hashing.  The
crypt function in the GNU C Library supports $1 for MD5 hashing.

However, fcrypt does not support any extensions.  If you try to use
any of them, the first two characters of the setting will be used as
the salt, making fcrypt even less secure than usual.


  Known Issues
  ------------

The Python fcrypt module is designed for the implicit truncation of
int values to 32 bits that occurs in some cases in Python 2.2 and
earlier.  Python 2.3 behaves the same, but generates warnings that the
behaviour will change in Python 2.4.  I believe that fcrypt will still
work under Python 2.4, but it will become slower as ints are
implicitly promoted to longs in its calculations.

In the meantime, you can silence the warnings by starting Python 2.3
with an extra argument, as follows:

    $ python -Wignore::FutureWarning:fcrypt

Alternatively, you can add code to disable the warnings before
importing fcrypt:

    if sys.version[:3] == '2.3':
        import warnings
        warnings.filterwarnings('ignore', '', FutureWarning, '^fcrypt$')
    import fcrypt


  Related Links
  -------------

For more information, see the documentation for Python's built-in
crypt module at:

    http://www.python.org/doc/current/lib/module-crypt.html

michal j wallace's md5crypt for Python is available from:

    http://www.sabren.net/code/python/crypt/index.php3

Eric Young's fcrypt.c is available from:

    ftp://ftp.psy.uq.oz.au/pub/Crypto/DES/

For more Distutils information, see:

    http://www.python.org/doc/current/inst/inst.html
    http://www.python.org/sigs/distutils-sig/

-- 
Carey Evans  <careye@spamcop.net>
20 February 2004
